Introduce inclusive authentication mode, improve documentation of inclusive authentication and make its config runtime (#46183)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-authentication-mechanisms.adoc

<2> Make the `roles1` permission match only the endpoint annotated with the `@AuthorizationCodeFlow` annotation.
Unannotated endpoints must avoid the delay caused by the `applies-to=JAXRS` option.

=== Use inclusive authentication to enable path-based authentication

> Currently Quarkus only supports out of the box path-based authentication for one authentication mechanism per path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Quarkus only supports <<link to the path based auth section>> for one authentication mechanism per path.
```

> If you need to combine multiple authentication mechanisms, you can write your own HTTP Authentication mechanism as documented in the xref:security-customization.adoc#dealing-with-more-than-one-http-auth-mechanisms[Dealing with more than one HttpAuthenticationMechanism] section of the Security Tips and Tricks guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If more than one authentication mechanism must be used for the path based authentication, you can write a custom `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` as documented in the xref:security-customization.adoc#dealing-with-more-than-one-http-auth-mechanisms[Dealing with more than one HttpAuthenticationMechanism] section of the Security Tips and Tricks guide.
```

> Another options is to enable inclusive authentication in the lax mode and write a custom HTTP Security policy or a permission checker that verifies all registered HTTP Authentication mechanisms created a `SecurityIdentity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to enable inclusive authentication in the lax mode and write a custom `HttpSecurityPolicy` or `PermissionChecker` that verifies that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms created their mechanism-specific `SecurityIdentity`.
```

.Enable inclusive authentication in the lax mode
[source,properties]
----
quarkus.http.auth.inclusive-mode=lax <1>
quarkus.http.auth.inclusive=true
----

> <1> By default, inclusive authentication require that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms must create the `SecurityIdentity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> By default, inclusive authentication requires that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms must create the `SecurityIdentity`.
```

> However in the lax mode, authentication succeeds if at least one registered HTTP authentication mechanism created the `SecurityIdentity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in the lax mode, the authentication succeeds if at least one registered `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` created the `SecurityIdentity`.
```

<2> Make the `roles1` permission match only the endpoint annotated with the `@AuthorizationCodeFlow` annotation.
Unannotated endpoints must avoid the delay caused by the `applies-to=JAXRS` option.

=== Use inclusive authentication to enable path-based authentication

> By default, Quarkus only supports <<http-security-policy-path-based-auth,path-based authentication>> for one authentication mechanism per path.

Reviewer: There is also an annotation based path-based authentication...
In https://quarkus.io/guides/security-authentication-mechanisms#combining-authentication-mechanisms, I propose to restructure it a little bit, add `=== Inclusive Authentication` subsection where we talk about it, then `=== Path-based authentication` (which is what we should link to from here), and add `==== Use HttpSecurityPolicy` and `==== Use annotations`.

IMHO that can be a bit better

If more than one authentication mechanism must be used for the path-based authentication, you can write a custom `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` as documented in the xref:security-customization.adoc#dealing-with-more-than-one-http-auth-mechanisms[Dealing with more than one HttpAuthenticationMechanism] section of the Security Tips and Tricks guide.

> Another option is to enable inclusive authentication in the lax mode and write a custom `HttpSecurityPolicy` or `PermissionChecker` that verifies that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms created their mechanism-specific `SecurityIdentity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to enable the <<inclusive authentication-link>> in the lax mode and write a custom `HttpSecurityPolicy` or `PermissionChecker` that verifies that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms created their mechanism-specific `SecurityIdentity`.
```

Proposing to link here to the inclusive authentication subsection once it is created as proposed above

----
<1> By default, inclusive authentication requires that all registered HTTP authentication mechanisms must create the `SecurityIdentity`.
However, in the lax mode, the authentication succeeds if at least one registered `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` created the `SecurityIdentity`.

.Example of the HTTP Authentication mechanisms check
[source,java]
----
import io.quarkus.security.PermissionChecker;
import io.quarkus.security.PermissionsAllowed;
import io.quarkus.security.identity.SecurityIdentity;
import io.quarkus.vertx.http.runtime.security.HttpSecurityUtils;
import jakarta.ws.rs.GET;
import jakarta.ws.rs.Path;

import java.util.Map;

@Path("/hello")
public class HelloResource {

    @PermissionsAllowed("mtls-basic")
    @GET
    public String hello() {
        return "Hello world";
    }

    @PermissionChecker("mtls-basic")
    boolean isMtlsAndBasicAuthentication(SecurityIdentity identity) {
        Map<String, SecurityIdentity> identities = HttpSecurityUtils.getSecurityIdentities(identity);
        if (identities != null) {
            return identities.containsKey("basic") && identities.containsKey("x509"); <1>
        }
        return false;
    }
}
----

> <1> Permit access to HTTP requests authenticated with both mTLS and basic authentication mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Permit access to the endpoint only if it is confirmed that both `mTLS` and `Basic` authentication mechanisms have authenticated the current request.
```
